pages/guidance/backends.mdx, before:

import Admonition from '../../src/components/Admonition'

# Backends

Two options are available:

- Wetty - a WebSocket-based terminal implementation
- Guacamole - a WebSocket-based remote desktop application

:::warn
Both backends require setting up backing services and will not work "out-of-the-box".
:::

## Wetty

Wetty is good for terminal-based labs and tutorials. It is fast and feature-rich. The user experience is very close
to what working on a "real" terminal feels like. More info regarding setup can be found on the 
[Wetty Developer Page](https://github.com/butlerx/wetty). In particular, Wetty can act as a bridge to systems that 
are accessed through `ssh`. At the moment, Wetty does not support file transfer out of the box.

The Wetty backend service can be configured in `app.config.js`:

| parameter     | description                                     |
| ------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| `backendType` | set to `"wetty"`                                |
| `backendURL`  | set to URL of backing service (i.e., wetty app) |

:::info
You do **not** configure the actual backend to work on (which you normally access through `ssh`) in the web app.
This is done when setting up the Wetty service.
:::

The web app currently **does not** support authentication in any form. This is handled by Wetty, which presents 
a login prompt if configured to use a remote ssh service.

Commit message:

Added info for html backends

pages/guidance/backends.mdx, after:

import Admonition from '../../src/components/Admonition'

# Backends

Two options are available:

- Wetty - a WebSocket-based terminal implementation
- Guacamole - a WebSocket-based remote desktop application

:::warn
Both backends require setting up backing services and will not work "out-of-the-box".
:::

## Wetty

Wetty is good for terminal-based labs and tutorials. It is fast and feature-rich. The user experience is very close
to what working on a "real" terminal feels like. More info regarding setup can be found on the 
[Wetty Developer Page](https://github.com/butlerx/wetty). In particular, Wetty can act as a bridge to systems that 
are accessed through `ssh`. At the moment, Wetty does not support file transfer out of the box.

The Wetty backend service can be configured in `app.config.js`:

| parameter     | description                                     |
| ------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| `backendType` | set to `"wetty"`                                |
| `backendURL`  | set to URL of backing service (i.e., wetty app) |

:::info
You do **not** configure the actual backend to work on (which you normally access through `ssh`) in the web app.
This is done when setting up the Wetty service.
:::

## Guacamole

[Guacamole](https://guacamole.apache.org) is an Apache project that provides access 
to remote computers via the web. It is essentially a bridge between RDP or VNC remote 
access servers and a HTML5 canvas to act as 'display'.

The Guacamole backend service can be configured in `app.config.js`:

| parameter     | description                                     |
| ------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| `backendType` | set to `"guacamole"`                            |
| `backendURL`  | set to URL of backing service (i.e., guacd app) |
| `backendToken`| bearer token to authenticate with the guacd API |

How to configure a Guacamole server is beyond the scope of this intro.

## Other HTML backends

In principle, it should be possible to use any HTML service (e.g. JupyterHub) as the 
backend using the `wetty` backend type as long as displaying the webpage within 
an `<iframe>` is allowed. For self-hosted services this might require configuring CORS 
header. 

:::warn
Embedding Github will not work, because Github does not allow embedding of its
webpages into `<iframes>`. This is also true for Github-based authentication. 
:::
